# How to use delays



## What are delay nodes

Delay nodes are essential tools in creating effective and engaging automated message flows. They allow you to follow up with your customers after a certain period of time in case they don’t reply, which can be especially useful for WABA users who have a conversation window of 24 hours. You can also use it to set automatic follow ups after a product sale to gather customer reviews or sell other related products after some time (like insurance renewals)

 

<aside>
❗ It is compulsory to have a delay node between 2 message nodes. You cannot have 2 message nodes following each other.

</aside>

<aside>
❗ A delay node must have a valid message node before and after it. These messages cannot be empty.

</aside>

[[https://drive.google.com/file/d/13GtQPfZHQXVmI7hcUGoA4vfwg2lk6Tqe/view?usp=drive_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13GtQPfZHQXVmI7hcUGoA4vfwg2lk6Tqe/view?usp=drive_link)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13GtQPfZHQXVmI7hcUGoA4vfwg2lk6Tqe/view?usp=drive_link)

## Types of delay nodes

There are 3 types of delay nodes:

1. **Duration** - Add a delay of the exact duration you want to send your next message after
    
    Ex: You want to follow up with a customer who has not responded in **1 hour**
    
2. **Date** - Send your next message on a specific date at a specific time 
    
    Ex: You’re hosting a webinar on **25/06/2024 at 10:00 AM** and you want to send a reminder 1 day before
    
3. **Weekday with time** - ****Select when to send your next message based on the day of the week
    
    Ex: You want to promote your YouTube video which comes out **Next Tuesday at 9:00 AM** 
    

## Advanced options

### Show “typing...” during display

Select this checkbox if you want to make the interaction feel more human and engaging by showing “typing” on WhatsApp before the message is sent out.

### Cancel message if reply received

This option ensures that any scheduled follow up messages are automatically canceled if a reply is received from the recipient before the message is sent. So you can send an automated follow up message using delays and if the customer replies before the set time, the message will be canceled.